---
title: News about XBPS
layout: post
---

In the last week we pushed a lot of XBPS updates, **a lot**.

The previous post about XBPS 0.54 was rather short and I would like to show a few more new things.
If you are interested in all changes, read the [NEWS](https://github.com/void-linux/xbps/blob/master/NEWS) file in the void-linux/xbps repository.

## Performance improvements

Some users might have noticed that removing the `plasma-desktop` package took ages, because of some dependency cycles.
The dependency resolution algorithm has been completely rewritten and is now able to resolve the dependencies of `kde-plasma` with

See the [pull request void-linux/xbps#78](https://github.com/void-linux/xbps/pull/78) if you are interested in what changed.

## Auto-updating reverse dependencies

XBPS is now able to automatically add reverse dependencies to transactions that install or update single packages.

As example, I update `libharfbuzz`, which will then also update all other packages that I have installed.

```
# xbps-install -u libharfbuzz

Name        Action    Version           New version            Download size
gegl        update    0.4.14_2          0.4.16_1               1416KB
libgimp     update    2.10.10_2         2.10.12_1              404KB
gimp        update    2.10.10_2         2.10.12_1              18MB
gtk+3       update    3.24.8_2          3.24.9_1               5940KB
libharfbuzz update    2.4.0_1           2.5.2_1                457KB

Size to download:               26MB
Size required on disk:          26MB
Space available on disk:        68GB

Do you want to continue? [Y/n]
```

In previous releases, XBPS would error out with messages which packages the updated `libharfbuzz` package would break.

## ignorepkg

Many users tried to get rid of the default kernel or some other `base-system` requirement.
For this we've added a new configuration keyword: `ignorepkg`.

With this new keyword you can ignore packages that are pulled in by other packages as runtime dependencies.

As example you can add `linux-firmware-amd` as ignored package and then uninstall the package:

```
# echo "ignorepkg=linux-firmware-amd" > /etc/xbps.d/10-ignore.conf
# xbps-remove linux-firmware-amd
```

This works for any package, i.e. being able to remove `linux4.19` while keeping the `linux` meta package.
Or removing the `linux` meta package itself and installing only the kernel series you like to use yourself.
